To Mrs. Saville, England. 

St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17—. 

You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the 
commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded 
with such evil forebodings. I arrived here yesterday; and 
my first task is to assure my dear sister of my welfare, and 
increasing confidence in the success of my undertaking. 

I am already far north of London; and as I walk in the 
streets of Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern breeze play 
upon my cheeks, which braces my nerves, and fills me with 
delight. Do you understand this feeling? This breeze, which 
has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing, 
gives me a foretaste of those icy climes. Inspirited by this 
wind of promise, my day dreams become more fervent and 
vivid. I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of 
frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination 
as the region of beauty and delight. There, Margaret, the 
sun is for ever visible; its broad disk just skirting the horizon, 
and diffusing a perpetual splendour. There — for with your 
leave, my sister, I will put some trust in preceding navigators 
— there snow and frost are banished; and, sailing over a calm 



4 Letter I 

sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in wonders and 
in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable 
globe. Its productions and features may be without example, 
as the phaenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are 
in those undiscovered solitudes. What may not be expected 
in a country of eternal light? I may there discover the won- 
drous power which attracts the needle; and may regulate a 
thousand celestial observations, that require only this voyage 
to render their seeming eccentricities consistent for ever. I 
shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the 
world never before visited, and may tread a land never before 
imprinted by the foot of man. These are my enticements, 
and they are sufficient to conquer all fear of danger or death, 
and to induce me to commence this laborious voyage with 
the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little boat, with his 
holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his native 
river. But, supposing all these conjectures to be false, you 
cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on 
all mankind to the last generation, by discovering a passage 
near the pole to those countries, to reach which at present 
so many months are requisite; or by ascertaining the secret 
of the magnet, which, if at all possible, can only be effected 
by an undertaking such as mine. 

These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I 
began my letter, and I feel my heart glow with an enthusiasm 
which elevates me to heaven; for nothing contributes so 
much to tranquillize the mind as a steady purpose, — a point 
on which the soul may fix its intellectual eye. This expedition 
has been the favourite dream of my early years. I have 
read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which 
have been made in the prospect of arriving at the North 
Pacific Ocean through the seas which surround the pole. 
You may remember, that a history of all the voyages made 



Letter I 5 

for purposes of discovery composed the whole of our good 
uncle Thomas's library. My education was neglected, yet I 
was passionately fond of reading. These volumes were my 
study day and night, and my familiarity with them increased 
that regret which I had felt, as a child, on learning that my 
father's dying injunction had forbidden my uncle to allow me 
to embark in a sea-faring life. 

These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, 
those poets whose effusions entranced my soul, and lifted it 
to heaven. I also became a poet, and for one year lived in 
a Paradise of my own creation; I imagined that I also might 
obtain a niche in the temple where the names of Homer and 
Shakespeare are consecrated. You are well acquainted with 
my failure, and how heavily I bore the disappointment. But 
just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin, and my 
thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent. 

Six years have passed since I resolved on my present 
undertaking. I can, even now, remember the hour from which 
I dedicated myself to this great enterprise. I commenced 
by inuring my body to hardship. I accompanied the whale- 
fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea; I voluntar- 
ily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often 
worked harder than the common sailors during the day, and 
devoted my nights to the study of mathematics, the theory 
of medicine, and those branches of physical science from 
which a naval adventurer might derive the greatest practical 
advantage. Twice I actually hired myself as an under-mate 
in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. 
I must own I felt a little proud, when my captain offered me 
the second dignity in the vessel, and entreated me to remain 
with the greatest earnestness; so valuable did he consider 
my services. 

And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish 



6 Letter I 

some great purpose. My life might have been passed in 
ease and luxury; but I preferred glory to every enticement 
that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some encouraging 
voice would answer in the affirmative! My courage and my 
resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits 
are often depressed. I am about to proceed on a long and 
difficult voyage; the emergencies of which will demand all my 
fortitude: I am required not only to raise the spirits of others, 
but sometimes to sustain my own, when their's are failing. 

This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia. 
They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is 
pleasant, and, in my opinion, far more agreeable than that of 
an English stage-coach. The cold is not excessive, if you are 
wrapt in furs, a dress which I have already adopted; for there 
is a great difference between walking the deck and remaining 
seated motionless for hours, when no exercise prevents the 
blood from actually freezing in your veins. I have no ambition 
to lose my life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and 
Archangel. 

I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three 
weeks; and my intention is to hire a ship there, which can 
easily be done by paying the insurance for the owner, and to 
engage as many sailors as I think necessary among those 
who are accustomed to the whale-fishing. I do not intend to 
sail until the month of June: and when shall I return? Ah, 
dear sister, how can I answer this question? If I succeed, 
many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you and 
I may meet. If I fail, you will see me again soon, or never. 

Farewell, my dear, excellent, Margaret. Heaven shower 
down blessings on you, and save me, that I may again and 
again testify my gratitude for all your love and kindness. 



Letter I 



Your affectionate brother, 
R. Walton. 



8 Letter I 



Letter II 



To Mrs. Saville, England. 

Archangel, 28th March, 17— 

How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by 
frost and snow; yet a second step is taken towards my enter- 
prise. I have hired a vessel, and am occupied in collecting 
my sailors; those whom I have already engaged appear to 
be men on whom I can depend, and are certainly possessed 
of dauntless courage. 

But I have one want which I have never yet been able to 
satisfy; and the absence of the object of which I now feel as 
a most severe evil. I have no friend, Margaret: when I am 
glowing with the enthusiasm of success, there will be none 
to participate my joy; if I am assailed by disappointment, no 
one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I shall commit 
my thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium 
for the communication of feeling. I desire the company of 
a man who could sympathize with me; whose eyes would 
reply to mine. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, 
but I bitterly feel the want of a friend. I have no one near 
me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well 
as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my own, to 



1 Letter II 

approve or amend my plans. How would such a friend repair 
the faults of your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution, 
and too impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil 
to me that I am self-educated: for the first fourteen years of 
my life I ran wild on a common, and read nothing but our 
uncle Thomas's books of voyages. At that age I became 
acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own country; but 
it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to derive 
its most important benefits from such a conviction, that I 
perceived the necessity of becoming acquainted with more 
languages than that of my native country. Now I am twenty- 
eight, and am in reality more illiterate than many school-boys 
of fifteen. It is true that I have thought more, and that my 
day dreams are more extended and magnificent; but they 
want (as the painters call it) keeping; and I greatly need a 
friend who would have sense enough not to despise me 
as romantic, and affection enough for me to endeavour to 
regulate my mind. 

Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find 
no friend on the wide ocean, nor even here in Archangel, 
among merchants and seamen. Yet some feelings, unallied 
to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged 
bosoms. My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful 
courage and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory. He is 
an Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional 
prejudices, unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the 
noblest endowments of humanity. I first became acquainted 
with him on board a whale vessel: finding that he was un- 
employed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist in my 
enterprise. 

The master is a person of an excellent disposition, and is 
remarkable in the ship for his gentleness, and the mildness 
of his discipline. He is, indeed, of so amiable a nature, that 



Letter II 1 1 

he will not hunt (a favourite, and almost the only amusement 
here), because he cannot endure to spill blood. He is, more- 
over, heroically generous. Some years ago he loved a young 
Russian lady, of moderate fortune; and having amassed a 
considerable sum in prize-money, the father of the girl con- 
sented to the match. He saw his mistress once before the 
destined ceremony; but she was bathed in tears, and, throw- 
ing herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her, confessing 
at the same time that she loved another, but that he was 
poor, and that her father would never consent to the union. 
My generous friend reassured the suppliant, and on being 
informed of the name of her lover instantly abandoned his 
pursuit. He had already bought a farm with his money, on 
which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but 
he bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains 
of his prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself so- 
licited the young woman's father to consent to her marriage 
with her lover. But the old man decidedly refused, thinking 
himself bound in honour to my friend; who, when he found 
the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor returned until 
he heard that his former mistress was married according to 
her inclinations. "What a noble fellow!" you will exclaim. He 
is so; but then he has passed all his life on board a vessel, 
and has scarcely an idea beyond the rope and the shroud. 
But do not suppose that, because I complain a little, or 
because I can conceive a consolation for my toils which I 
may never know, that I am wavering in my resolutions. Those 
are as fixed as fate; and my voyage is only now delayed until 
the weather shall permit my embarkation. The winter has 
been dreadfully severe; but the spring promises well, and it is 
considered as a remarkably early season; so that, perhaps, 
I may sail sooner than I expected. I shall do nothing rashly; 
you know me sufficiently to confide in my prudence and 



12 Letter II 

considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed 
to my care. 

I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near 
prospect of my undertaking. It is impossible to communi- 
cate to you a conception of the trembling sensation, half 
pleasurable and half fearful, with which I am preparing to 
depart. I am going to unexplored regions, to "the land of mist 
and snow;" but I shall kill no albatross, therefore do not be 
alarmed for my safety. 

Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense 
seas, and returned by the most southern cape of Africa or 
America? I dare not expect such success, yet I cannot bear 
to look on the reverse of the picture. Continue to write to me 
by every opportunity: I may receive your letters (though the 
chance is very doubtful) on some occasions when I need 
them most to support my spirits. I love you very tenderly. 
Remember me with affection, should you never hear from 
me again. 

Your affectionate brother, 
Robert Walton. 



Letter 



To Mrs. Saville, England. 

July 7th, 17—. 

MY DEAR SISTER, 

I write a few lines in haste, to say that I am safe, and well 
advanced on my voyage. This letter will reach England by a 
merchant-man now on its homeward voyage from Archangel; 
more fortunate than I, who may not see my native land, 
perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good spirits: 
my men are bold, and apparently firm of purpose; nor do 
the floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating 
the dangers of the region towards which we are advancing, 
appear to dismay them. We have already reached a very 
high latitude; but it is the height of summer, and although not 
so warm as in England, the southern gales, which blow us 
speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire to 
attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had 
not expected. 